#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass book
\begin_preamble
\usepackage {times}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme times
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single 
\papersize a4paper
\paperpackage widemarginsa4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle headings

\layout Title
\added_space_top vfill \added_space_bottom vfill 
DRUID FAQ
\layout Author

Andrea Carboni
\layout Date

Rev 4, 25-Dec-2003
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Chapter

Frequently Asked Questions
\layout Section

General
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Question
\series default 
 
\emph on 
An unexpected exception has been detected in native code outside the VM...
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

This is a crash of the Java Virtual Machine and is not due to Druid.
 
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Question
\series default 
 
\emph on 
I get Out of memory when...
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

Generally speaking, Druid uses from 35 Mb (an empty instance) to 60 Mb (with
 100 tables and 500 fields).
 If you encounter this error try to run Druid this way:
\layout LyX-Code

java -mx512m -jar druid.jar
\layout Standard

If you have less than 512 megabytes then use a different number.
 Some users had problems under Linux with Druid that was using more than
 1 gigabyte of memory.
 This is unusual and maybe is due to a particular combination of glibc /
 jvm / kernel.
\layout Standard

However, during normal operations and default jvm settings, Druid complains
 about memory when you have more than 500 tables and 2500 fields.
 You get aware of this because some operations (for example project load/save)
 become slow.
 In this case, or if you want a faster response, user the -mx option above
 to increase memory.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Question
\series default 
 
\emph on 
When I select 
\family sans 
Project
\family default 
\SpecialChar \menuseparator

\family sans 
New
\family default 
 from the menu, no project is shown.
 Is it a bug?
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

No.
 A project is a collection of databases.
 When you run Druid and the main frame appears you have an empty project.
 Right click on the project-view panel and add a new database.
 When you select 
\family sans 
Project
\family default 
\emph on 
\SpecialChar \menuseparator

\family sans 
\emph default 
New
\family default 
 from the menu, Druid creates a new empty project and waits for new databases
 to be created.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Question
\series default 
 
\emph on 
The last druid release doesn't open an old project file.
 Is it a bug?
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

No.
 Every druid release is capable of loading only a project saved by the previous
 one.
 The druid's releases are: 2.7, 3.0-PRE, 3.0-INT, etc...
 So, a 2.7 project file can be opened with the 3.0-PRE release and not with
 the 3.0-INT release.
 To load it with the 3.0-INT do the following:
\layout Itemize

Open the project with the 3.0-PRE release and save it
\layout Itemize

Reopen it with the 3.0-INT release 
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Question
\series default 
 
\emph on 
Druid doesn't save my project.
 Is it too big ?
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

Druid is limited only by memory available.
 With the standard jvm setting (64 MB) it works fine up to 400 tables and
 2000 fields (tested).
 To handle more data, try to start the jvm with more memory, like this:
\layout LyX-Code

java -mx256m -jar druid.jar
\layout Standard

In any case, other users experienced problems during saving.
 This was, in linux systems, due to the glibc-2.3 and latest jdks.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Question
\series default 
 
\emph on 
I want to reverse engineer my database and then generate SQL for PostgreSQL,
 Oracle, MySQL etc...
 Can I do that ?
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

Druid can do all you need.
 The only relevant aspect is that druid works with physical models only.
 That is, if you import a schema from oracle then you cannot export the
 same schema into postgresql or another db that doesn't support blobs, clobs
 etc...
 Furthermore, the druid's jdbc import capability depends strongly on the
 'goodness' of the jdbc driver you use.
\end_deeper 
\layout Section

PostgreSQL
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Question
\series default 
 
\emph on 
Does Druid work with PostgreSQL ?
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

Yes.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Question
\series default 
 
\emph on 
May I use Druid with the PostgreSQL jdbc driver ?
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

Yes, but you have to use a version >= 7.3 of the JDBC driver.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Question
\series default 
 
\emph on 
How do I use the serial type ?
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

The 
\series bold 
serial
\series default 
 type is an alias for the 
\series bold 
int
\series default 
 type that generates a sequence too.
 Add the serial type as a basic constant type, the postgres sql module will
 convert the serial to int when it encounters a foreign key.
\end_deeper 
\layout Section

Linux
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Question
\series default 
 
\emph on 
Permissions issues
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

When running Druid with an user other than 
\emph on 
root
\emph default 
 make sure that the user has read permissions on the Druid's directory.
 Druid needs to scan the data directory too.
 This can be accomplished issuing the following command:
\layout LyX-Code

chown -R <user>:<group> <druid-directory>
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Question
\series default 
 
\emph on 
When I run Druid over X, it is much slower than when it runs locally.
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

Select from the menu 
\family sans 
Config
\family default 
\SpecialChar \menuseparator

\family sans 
Options
\family default 
 and turn off antialiasing.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Question
\series default 
 
\emph on 
GLibc issues
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

There is an incompatibility between the JVM 1.4.x and distributions that have
 the glibc 2.3 (tipically RedHat 8.0 / 9.0).
 In these systems Druid can behave strangely, specially during save.
\the_end
